Before proceeding, use the following instructions to set up your local assignment repository.  This will be the place you work on your class assignments and it will be linked to two remote repositories on GitHub:

1. assignment-upstream - You should be able to find this repository in our class organization on GitHub: https://github.com/MIDS-INFO-W18/assignment-upstream   This is where we will post all class assignments.  You have read access to this repository, and each week you will use a pull command to download the latest assignments to your own machine.
2. your student repository - Your instructors should have given you a link to your own student repository, which you have write access to, but is only readable by you and your instructors.  When you complete your homework each week, you will use a push command to upload your work to this repository.

## Initial Setup

There are several ways that you can set up your local repository.  We recommend the following procedure.  Open a command prompt and use it to navigate to your desktop.  Then execute the following commands:

``` sh
git clone git@github.com:MIDS-INFO-W18/assignment-upstream.git
cd assignment-upstream
git remote remove origin
git remote add upstream git@github.com:MIDS-INFO-W18/assignment-upstream.git
git remote add origin <ENTER YOUR REPOSITORY SSH URL HERE>
```

Note that you can find the URLs above by navigating to the appropriate repository in your web browser, then clicking on the "Clone or download" button in the upper right corner.

To check if you did everything right, execute the following command:

``` sh
git remote -v
```

The output should show two remotes, one named origin and one named upstream.  You should also use the ls command to confirm that the assignment files have been copied to your machine.


## Workflow for Each Week

Each week, you'll begin by downloading the latest changes to the assignment-upstream repository.  You do this with a git pull:

``` sh
git pull upstream master
```

Next, you complete all the exercises on your local machine and commit your changes to git.  Finally, you'll push your changes up to your personal student repository.  You can do this with the following command:

```sh
git push origin master
```


## Completing the Exercise

The assignment-upstream repository contains a simple exercise to give you practice with this procedure.  Start IPython Notebooks running in your browser and navigate to the week_3 directory in your local repository. Click on the file named First_GitHub_Exercise.ipynb to open it. You will see a simple practice exercise in this file. Edit the Code cell to complete the exercise, then save your file.

Next, commit the changes to your local repository. Go back to your command terminal and type the following.
```
git status
```
This should confirm that you have a modified file in your repository. Go ahead and add the file.

git add First_GitHub_Exercise.ipynb

Then commit your changes.

git commit -m "completed GitHub exercise".


## Pushing Changes to GitHub

Now it is time to push your changes up to your GitHub repository. First, run `git status` to confirm that all your code is currently committed.  Next, push your changes to the master branch of origin, representing your repository on GitHub.

```sh
git push origin master
```

Check the GitHub repository in your browser to confirm that your changes are there.